so planets become more interesting moons
become places to go and revisit but
there was a whole other goal and that
was the search for intelligent life
still is in the universe oh man it is
very reasonable that maybe in my
lifetime but in your kids is's lifetime
somebody's going to find evidence of
Life on another world and because if we
found such a signal it would dare I say
it change change the world the day we
discover Life Will signal a change in
the human condition that we cannot
foresee or
[Music]
imagine that's pretty
good this is Star Talk Neil degrass
Tyson here your personal astrophysicist
and today I've got an exclusive
one-on-one conversation reserved for
only those people who are not only
important but are also a friend of mine
we got with me in studio Bill NY
greetings doctor how you doing man got a
bow tie on and everything you're just
completely that guy I am that guy the
science guy what you see is what you get
and did you tie your own bow tie today
yeah you imagine bill nine wears clip on
tie that would be a
funny Bill Nye decided to end his career
and lose respect from all his fans just
I want you to know if I ever see anybody
with a bow tie I ask them if it's real
and if they say not which is about
two-thirds of people not see what he did
there I I say I want to tell Bill Nye on
you and then they shudder because they
they can wear clip on both TI that's
fine I mean I just think it's it's not
in the as we say uh the spirit of the
game I flew my ass out here to Los
Angeles we are now in your office of the
planetary
Society Pasadena California the same
town where this Society was birthed a
true fact false give me a
fast birther story on this uh so Carl
Sean had been very influential in
getting Voyager uh the Viking landing on
Mars and the two Voyager spacecraft
launched and just so just for historical
completeness there were two missions of
Viking Lander and a viking Orbiter and
so it could photograph the surface yes
amazing really amazing VIs AR ideas and
so he noticed uh that public interest in
space exploration especially Planetary
Exploration was very high but government
support of it was waning and he had this
big idea for a solar sale spacecraft
it's 1970s now
1976 yeah yeah and the Disco era and
that was set aside for more human
missions including the famous handshake
in space so that the Soviet Union and
the United States would have no more
conflict and that worked out great it
was an Apollo capsule in orbit around
Earth the soyou capsule and they were
configured so that their collar could
could join and they open the hatch and
they're all weightless so they're just
floating through and they would shake
hands and I was told that the Americans
were trained to only speak Russian and
the Russians were trained to only speak
English and US astronauts still speak
Russian still a thing they do MH so uh
and we flew on soyou's rockets for a
zillion years all that inclusive Bruce
Murray who was head of the jet
propulsion lab during these famous
missions Viking and Voyager and
propulsion lab right here in Pasadena
yes right at why were up the street and
then U Lou fredman Who was an orbital
mechanics guy engineer yes at uh both
the PHD which you like uh they decided
that there was enough interest in space
exploration that they could start the
planetary society and of Grassroots
interest Grassroots yeah so we had the
planetary so had tens of thousands of
members by the end of pick a number
1982 uh was started in the winter of 79
1980 I'm a charter member now I remember
getting the letter and I I was not I be
frank with you I I was not moved by the
letter because if I remember correctly
it says
Dear citizen of planet Earth Earth and I
said that's not very special to me what
did you want citizen of New York I dear
Neal I mean I don't know a little more
personal than dear citizen of planet
Earth it was the State ofth art anyway
uh the planetary side has been around
now that we'll have our 45th anniversary
this spring and what we do is promote
Planetary Exploration and just
notably just uh last week as we're
recording this the the Europa Clipper
Mission left for the moon of Jupiter
with twice as much ocean water res Earth
and that is in part let's say entirely
because of the planetary Society where
our members 40,000 people around the
world think space exploration of planets
is very important wrote letters and
emails to US Congress especially got
this Miss Mission funded u 11 years ago
and now it's flying and it was delayed
because of Hurricane Milton hurricane
Milton you know I wanted to have a
little sort of romantic Nostalgia for
the 1969 film marooned do you remember
that yeah with OJ Simpson no that's a
different no he that's what's that one
you're getting your movies mixed up that
was uh Capricorn 5 Capricorn 5 okay
Capricorn 5 or Capricorn one oh maybe
Capricorn one yeah yeah anyway this
maroon where they maroon retro Rockets
don't fire and they Buton they can't get
out of orbit yeah all right and but they
have a rescue ship to go rescue them but
they can't launch because the hurricane
is coming through Cape Canaveral those
were the days okay and I remember as a
kid it was like hurricane that's pretty
artificial and then I realiz
storytelling yeah it's Florida this was
not a weird fact to put into your story
and so then some clever meteorologist
says
hey Neil the eye of the hurricane is
going to go over the
LaunchPad you seen have you ever been in
eye of a hurricane I'm told it's really
eerie it's weird yeah I was Hurricane
Agnes in the early 1970s uhhuh came over
and all of a sudden it's a clear sky for
a little while and I'm told there are
birds that get trapped inside of the eye
of the hurricane like tropical birds
that end up thousands of miles away from
there it would have been cool had they
launched um the EUR a Clipper in the eye
that would have been a risky set of
businesses because the the windows
enough so they just delayed it a week
well not just that just keep in mind
everybody humans have to be there to
launch the thing like people have go
home they have to secure they' got to
screw plywood to the windows of their
house and then they have to come back to
the cape to be ready to push the button
and look at all the fuel lines and
liquid oxygen connections and all that
that there's a lot more to it when we
talk about spacecraft we remind
everybody there tremendous number of
assets and investments in the
infrastructure on the ground back to you
H has the mission statement changed over
the decades very little uh but it's
succinct now okay uh we are the world's
largest independent space interest
organization advancing space science and
exploration so that citizens of Earth
will be empowered to know the cosmos and
our place within it that's really catchy
you know well here's what it is it's
succinct we Empower citizens I agreee
I'm just saying it's like it doesn't
roll off the tongue well it does if
you're the CEO yeah before the elevator
doors close you are CEO and president
president no no no there's a bylaw rule
I'm not president what are you we have a
separate I'm CEO just CEO yeah uh I
thought you were important exactly so
the president is an unpaid position did
not know that yeah that's great
tradition here a nonprofit in California
you used to be president I used to be
vice president vice president okay I was
equally unpaid as vice president uh and
so the board of directors is committed
and just notice everybody our board is
the real deal bunch of people our
president's Bethy Elman Dr Elman is a
professor at Caltech she has a couple
missions that she's a principal
investigator a pi on and uh our vice
president Heidi Hamill is one of the 20
most influential women astronomers in
history uh um Britney Schmidt is uh
driving around submarines under the ice
in anarctica are prepared to go under
the ice on Europa and Titan or Enceladus
I mean I was joking Enceladus and one of
the moons of Saturn of Saturn uhhuh
another icy Moon icy Moon yeah yeah and
so everybody if you have ocean water for
four and a half billion years is there
something alive it happened here on
Earth yeah one of the defining missions
of the 1970s was the Voyager oh it still
defines people here's the Voyager I
don't know if it's wide enough to see
but there's a replica of the record
uhhuh so this defined a generation of
Hope for our future space exploration
and Carl San was particularly visible
and known over that time yes yeah has it
changed over that over the decades and I
ask that because if I remember correctly
because I used to serve on the board of
the planetary society and I I cherish
that those years because it's where I
met you and
and it's where I met andran San's Widow
yes I did not know either I might have
met her once or some but we didn't know
each other until we were both on the
board so that was these are important
connections yes to be made this is this
is what we do we connect people with uh
the passion Beauty and joy the PB&J PB&J
loving it that's a that's a bill nism
PB&J uh yeah but uh it is yeah but it's
really caught on in the Science
Education this is that's how but now all
that aside peanut butter and jelly used
to be a very
common lunch uh treat I remember there
was a resistance to people in space
relative to robots and some of that
might have just been the sphere of
influence of Carl Carl Sean where he he
just who was a robot guy from an
engineering or scientific or science
fiction uh critic of uh astrophysical
Observer such I count myself among the
ranks of yes Premier astrophysical
Observer note well you can't get people
to Europa it's too flipping far away and
too cold and there's nowhere to walk and
everybody's going to die so you build
spacecraft to go there as our proxies
that we design the instruments to be as
human uh to give us both uh a scientific
perspective and a human perspective but
in the day robots were nothing compared
to today in the day I mean 50 years ago
years ago compare robotss then to today
today I'm walking down the street in La
there's a car with no driver yes no
driver making left turns it's turning
going straight you may see the bumper
sticker here in California on the Tesla
that says I'm probably not driving
that's pretty Charming but not these are
robots it's a car robot in that sense
right I'm say what do you got here so
this is uh the spirit rover a picture of
spirit rover and the cameras and it's
solar panels yes the cameras were set up
to be this is the expression as high as
a 10-year-old's eye so that you were
these cameras were put there so that
humankind could imagine ourselves
walking around driving around on Mars
and talking about the planetary side the
lore that we promote and I think you
alluded to this earlier is that Bruce
Murray was a young guy in the 1960s
co-founder on working on the Mariner
program Mariner to to Mars Mars which
was the ranger spacecraft repurposed to
go ranger went to the moon to map the
moon and as a kid I was being class and
we watch the moon come up yeah except
it's in space no sound yeah some of the
Rangers crash landed yeah on purpose
purposefully and uh to see what the
lunar surface was like up close so I
forgot all about Mariner because Mariner
I think took the first pictures of Mars
that revealed there were no canals yeah
yeah at some and so this Bruce Murray
gets credit when you're talking to us at
the planetary site for being the guy who
insisted that spacecraft have cameras
cuz people think scientists love
pictures but we don't give a rat's ass
about a picture well it depends on the
picture
no what I mean is there's much less
science in a photo than the public is
led to believe well we get chart records
we get magnetic magn counters magners
magnetometers we got Spectra we got a
lot Optical give me Spectra over a photo
any day but at but if people get dyed
about how beautiful universe is change
the world pictures from space change
world we all at some point must confess
to ourselves that that is the fact go
confess your brains out greetings Star
Talk star talkers
starlings you know space exploration is
not guaranteed it needs your support
that's why we have the planetary Society
we are the world's largest nonprofit
space advocacy organization connecting
you with the Grand Adventure of
exploring the cosmos become a member
today check out planetary.org StarTalk
if we want to credit back to some of
these founding
fathers I think Carl Sean was the first
scientist in his writings and in his you
know in his appearances on television
and to put you just a regular person
regular person citizen of Earth you
became a participant on that Frontier it
was no longer let them go do the thing
and they'll report back later
no or spend some tax dollars on this it
probably doesn't have anything to do
with you that's not it all has something
to do with you everything you are part
of this uh great process of discovery
this adventure and Bruce Murray used to
talk about the unknown
Horizon why are you guys sending
spacecraft out to these extraordinary
distant places what are you going to
find we don't know what we're going to
find that's why we're sending the
spacecraft I think it's Einstein that's
famously said
research is what I'm doing when I don't
know what I'm doing that sounds good
yeah yeah it's completely Isaac azimoff
science doesn't begin with a hypothesis
it begins with H that's funny oh no no
you got that wrong oh help me out yeah
he said very few scientific discoveries
if any ever begin with Eureka mhm it's
that's funny that's funny yeah what is
that so we explore the planets so I
another thing I credit the planetary
Society for and its philosophies and
it's out look is turning objects in
space into Worlds world is a great word
when you use the word world it's no
longer a detached object from your
imagination it really gets you here you
got it man you hit the no Neil that's
absolutely right that's I I don't know
anyone else who any other organization
organization or worldview that made that
such an important point right on man so
you guys you should join the planetary
so another thing that I credit the
enthusiasm of the planetary Society for
is when I was growing up the moons of
planets like why would anyone give a
rat's ass it's the Moon look at the
planet it's not the moons and then
Voyager goes out there gets pictures of
the moons and the moons are more
interesting than the planet there's a
lot going on a lot they're all different
IO Europa G our moon is like the least
interesting moon in the solar system
what's interesting about the Moon is
it's got a far side and a near side that
to me is amazing and I asked Carl San
why is the near side relatively smooth I
asked him this as we say in Middle
School to his face and he said uh it's
the Earth's gravity enabled these
impacts to get impact get accelerated
yeah and so lava flowed more recently on
the near surface than the far surface
did that turn out to be true you tell me
astrophysics Gravity Guy I've seen your
gravity books man I dabbled in the three
body I dabbled in the uh in the ham I
think there's an argument that any asid
that's headed in our direction would
feel Earth's gravity and it would you
would have a focusing effect towards so
Sean back then said gravitational lens
which was a that's not how the term was
used but we got all get through it yeah
yeah no your words include more than
they leave so so planets become more
interesting moons become places to go
and revisit but there was a whole
other whole other goal and that was the
search for intelligent life still is in
the universe oh man and I'm remembering
how big a part of that was in in my
couple of years when I served on the
board but then when I came off the board
it you know it's less tangible right
because we don't know if the aliens are
out there and and are they hearing
listening to us so where is TPS the
planetary Society relative to the search
for intelligence well we've let that go
to this seti institute Institute of
intelligence uh Institute and they're
based up in Northern California right
and they're very well owed and they chip
away at this problem and they just got a
boatload of money just well I went with
well owed you can go boatload of money
spacecraft full of money yeah and so
they will carry on a barge full of money
a barge full of money they will carry on
that resch
in their enabled best way possible and
they have a whole Suite of telescopes
originally funded by Paul Allen the
Allen AR yeah so these are telescopes
that are sensitive to radio waves on the
assumption that if anyone is going to
talk to us so they're going to use radio
because radios penetrate clouds Carl San
was very well spoken about this about
this logical place where water molecules
would not absorb radio logical place
logical frequency mhm or radio waves
would not be absorbed by water vapor and
so if an alien civilization water vapor
is in the across the universe as well
hydrogen's everywhere it would uh you
could aim your Intergalactic or
interplanetary uh Interstellar
Interstellar message to go through the
water hole as he called it very well
very cool term right but all that aside
it is very reasonable that maybe in my
lifetime but in your kids's lifetime
somebody's going to find evidence of
Life on another world and the logical
places are going to be under the Sands
of Mars okay but this would be microbial
life this is not yeah but still change
the world then you would say to Mr micro
Ms micro they microb do you have DNA are
you a whole another different get that
but that wasn't what seti was about no
no it's still not right seti finding
microbes that's not their it's fine
knock yourselves out that's not their
thing and because if we found such a
signal it would dare I say it CH change
the world and so we keep so said
Institute keeps listening we had an
exhibit at the Hayden planetarium before
we rebuilt that was narrated by William
Shatner and it was about the search for
life and I will I remembered the quote
because I thought it was a brilliant
sentence and he said it in his sort of
pause acting way um the day we discover
Life Will signal a change in the human
condition that we cannot foresee or
imagine that's pretty good no everybody
I say all the time everybody will feel
differently about being a living thing
yes whether or not it's what we call
intelligent oh yeah it would transform
biology The Logical question from the
Sands of Mars there's another hypothesis
that once Life Starts you can't stop it
so if life started on Mars there's yes
there's salty slush near the equator of
Mars was kept almost warm by Sun are
there microbes living under the sand and
if we found them do they have DNA to wit
was Mars hit with an impactor which
happens all the time long ago knocked a
living thing on a rock off into space it
fell woo wo woo excepts in space no
sound these would be microbes uh stowing
away in the no trapped stowing away land
on Earth and you and I are descendants
of martians that is an extraordinary
hypothesis you more so than me just yeah
well uh it's an extraordinary hypothesis
but if it proved to be true it would
change the world and so it is worth that
would be panspermia i p it's worth
investigating and I just discourage all
of you out there who want to go to Mars
by yourselves on your own giant
rocket just don't go go to the same
places the same places that are
interesting to you maybe or are very
likely the same places that are
interesting to people studying
astrobiology that's just for anybody who
happened to just anybody who happened to
used to be on the board of the planetary
Society before he or she was being sued
by the Securities and Exchange
Commission and is trying some political
tactic to try to not try to get a pardon
someday if you're that person consider
doing people for sure there's nothing
specific so anyway this picture means a
great deal to me and the staff had this
made and gave it to me and put it up in
this office because it features the sand
the Mars dial above the Sands of Mars
and so back in the day uh in the vi in
the Viking missions when Viking landed
on Mars why does that look like this uh
it's it's that's a little bit of a
coincidence uh okay okay but that's a
sample tube a replica of a sample tube
that's being collected by the
perseverance Rover and this you know you
sample if you sample it they will come
so there's Mars inside here it's a
cigarette sized sample of rock simulated
3D printed sample of rock got it and so
if in there by the way the rocks that
land here so this gets collected by some
geologist telling it there's a good rock
to put in bunch of geologists thinking
and this is sitting there waiting to be
it's in they're in two places just on
the surface m in case the Rover gets
disabled and can't do anything and in
the belly of the Rover they're being
stored all right so and I can see the
Rover's been around that's the de that's
Spirit that's 20 years before yeah 20
almost 30 years before yeah and so so I
see at the tip of that that resemble you
got good stuff on your CH yeah so
Clipper so there's the Mars do this is
right at the tip of the see that white
rectangle not the antenna the white
rectang I get it right right at the edge
there yeah so that's actual size okay so
in the Viking missions famously the
Rocks came back those pictures depicted
the Martian sky as
blue and the Rocks were too pink and it
took him I was at the 30th anniversary
of this thing and these guys were
talking about it took him about a day
and a half to realize that the cameras
had been calibrated on earth and the
pictures needed to be re-calibrated so
they found intuitively that if you look
at the shadow you can infer the color of
the sky so those of you out there
haven't sat through this go outside on a
sunny day if you're in itha New York
where I went to college there there is a
sunny day scheduled in the next 10 years
yes yeah then you make a shadow on
something white like my shirt would be
good and you'll see the shadow is gray
to be sure but it's also ever so
slightly light blue and that's because
the sun is not the only source of light
here on Earth's surface the sky is a
source of light looking at me nothing
but orange skies on the other planet
yeah so on Mars The Sky Is orange or
salmon colored or what have you and so
they found that by looking at the shadow
they could infer the color of the sky
and then how much the colors of the
Rocks had been influenced on the camera
on the images uh by the color of the sky
that's very clever so what you're saying
is to summarize whatever's going on in
the shadow is not directly influenced by
the sun it's directly influenced but
it's not the only influence no no no
sorry you get you get an authentic
background lighting from the rest of the
sky yeah yeah so let's send a shadow
Caster to Mars I was in a meeting a
Strater that's a that's a guitar the
blues guitar and you I don't know if you
are a Stratocaster Master but there is
uh the idea was to send this post this
stick to Mars to cast a shadow and I was
in the meeting and I said aren't there
many many things to cast a shadow no we
need it to fall in something precisely
calibrated or well-known colors of
grayscale and so I was in the meeting
now my dad had the misfortune of being a
prisoner of war in World War II for
almost four years and he told the story
often of walking in Japan in uh China at
first and then Japan at the end of the
war they got as Japanese influence
shrunk they got moved to the south
island of Japan for the last year of the
war but he would by all accounts stick a
shovel handle in the soil and watch the
Shadow and reckon when it was lunchtime
kind of thing and so he back that's
right so he wrote a book about sunds he
was the astronomy merit badge counselor
he made a sun for the Boy Scouts for the
Boy Scouts so I was in the meeting
they're going to send a metal stick to
Mars to cast a shadow so you have
genetic I'm just jumping out of my chair
you guys we got to make that into a Sund
dial okay I'm glad you didn't put a
shovel here for this so they were all
looking at me like dude it's the Space
Program bill I see you're wearing a
watch no come on it'll be like people
who speak Kling on except it'll be real
Mars 2004 Two Worlds one son that's so
Lou fredman one of our Founders came up
with that he we were having dinner at a
place that's now it was uh Louise trota
now it's U Cheesecake Factory but he
said uh one son Two Worlds in a few
seconds we all went oh no no two worlds
one son that's really inspirational
Light Shadows on Mars are cast by the
same lifegiving Star as Shadows on earth
now wait wait there's more on the edge
around the dial is a message to the
future we built this uh instrument in
2003 it arrived here in 2004 to study
the mar environment look for signs of
water and life and on the last of the
four read this what is it is it in
braille what is it's in a younger
person's
font yeah okay that's what says on the
last of the four it says to those who
visit here we wish a safe journey and
the joy of Discovery and that's written
in English because of course aliens read
English well well English no no it's
written for humans so well other humans
who yeah English is the language of
Aerospace even now and so and of
Aviation too yeah Aviation yeah so it's
it's
optimistic people are going to be there
and they're going to go up to that thing
and look at and think about the the way
we go up to the Plymouth Rock the way we
go up to what Mass yes a pyramid a mitu
Picchu we go up and go wow that's an
extraordinary thing humans before us did
and it's
optimistic and it has the joy of
Discovery and that has become PB&J
passion Med and joy jod joy of Discovery
that's become a phrase with me and the
staff hey Star Talk fans I don't know if
you know this but the audio version of
the podcast actually posts a week in
advance of the video version and you can
get that in Spotify an apple podcast and
most other podcast Outlets that are out
there multiple ways to ingest all that
is Cosmic on Star Talk tell me about
literal political advocacy because it's
one thing to just celebrate it and but
at some point somebody's got to show up
in Washington this is what we did so uh
have you been asked to testify oh heck
yes uhuh so what we have been able to do
uh is hire two guys who are just really
into this and are excellent at it so we
have one guy who studies policy this
sounds like you're talking about
lobbyists no so Lobby a lobbyist is a
paid person and he has to have a license
in this and that we are Advocates so
what we do is get our members 40 plus
members around the
world
40,000 members around well said 40K yes
40 plusk m close to 50K people around
the world this is evidence I'm paying
attention to what you're saying I want
you to know that that's why I interrupt
you when I pay I appreciate it Neil it's
very appreciated much 40 members of the
planetary 40,000 Members Plus almost
50,000 some weeks it is over 50 yes we
have this nonprofit problem continually
yes people fall off you have to
re-engage them you fall off they re all
right all that aside we send letters and
emails to members of Congress and the
senate advocating for space missions
that we believe uh are in the best
interest of humankind and the best
interest of making discoveries on these
other worlds that will affect our world
and the mo the one that we're all
talking about this week is the Europa
Clipper a replica shown here because it
it launched right and I testified in
front Congress in
2013 about the importance of this
mission where we're looking for signs of
Life on another world and or organic
material from on another world to learn
more about our own world and we do it
for inspirational wonderful Joy of
discoveries reasons but it's also if you
want to be the world leader in
technology you invest in space
exploration I testified once but I felt
like it was going into a black hole well
that's a black hole see what he did
there but I wasn't representing a whole
organization as you are so that's a
different Force operating well I'm one
voice and my voice is not irrelevant to
be sure it's relevant but when you these
congressmen and senators get thousands
tens of thousands of 10ks of letters and
emails it affects them you at the helm
of this ship that has influence I when I
testified I'm just Neil talking to the
Congress and I do they you know what am
I doing here like what are they that's
what they said to everybody said to me
Neil behind your behind your back no so
but so I look at this list here because
it's not just Europa Clipper which is
sucess on Route it's just most recent
Hubble Mars sample return uh the New
Horizons to Pluto uh the Europa Clipper
of course what I got two other missions
here Veritas which means truth but
that's all I know about it and Viper
what are those so veritos is a mission
to Venus so haven't had a mission to
Venus in 40 years it's not entirely
hospitable well but you want to have a
look and see what what happened on Venus
yeah what happened on Venus we don't
want to happen on Earth in fact people
talk about climate change now regularly
as I as you know I've been whining about
it for you got a whole book on yes
what's the name of that book uh
undeniable undeniable yes a whole book
talking about the reality of climate
change and how to how to spread that
information against misinformation
misinformation from the fossil fuel
industry who's worked hard to make
scientific uncertainty the same as doubt
about the whole thing right but that
aside you can argue that climate change
on Earth was discovered by studying the
atmosphere of Venus MH and so uh in 1984
or so so this really an extraordinary
thing it's the classic Bruce Murray what
are you going to find when you go
exploring these other worlds we don't
know that's why we go exploring so Bill
what you just said reminds me of that
quote from TS Elliot where he says you
I'm going to mangle it but the essence
of it will be there you explore the
world you know see new places travel
travel and then you come back home and
only then will you know your that place
for the very first time as I say the
more we explore these other worlds the
more we know about our own that's that
is it a new field comparative
planetology Carl Sean used to toss that
phrase around like it was a real phrase
it's not like we're here and everything
else is something else that's right plus
can I tell you one time I was
delightfully out geeked you're pretty
when
you but Geeks you know Geeks are on an
unlimited Spectrum okay however geeky
you are there's someone geekier than you
particularly if you go to Comic-Con Arms
Reach hard shake a stick someone geekier
all right so I calculated how long it
would take to cook a 16-in pepperoni
pizza on your window sill on Venus on
your window sill yeah you just put it on
on the window sill you know close the
window and just let it cook it's pretty
quick take s seconds 7 Seconds okay okay
all right so not only is it cook in 7
seconds because of the temperature did
you take into account atmospheric
pressure yes yeah back to you in my
calculation I considered as you
suggested what is the temperature of the
air and how many air molecules are
hitting it because it's got 10 times the
pressure that we have here on Earth
that's all factored in right that's how
I got down to S second bubbling Pizza is
not hardly going to Bubble okay so I
then got out geeked someone said Neil
did you
consider
the
thermodynamic radiative layer within the
atmosphere it's the optical depth it's
the distance
over which a photon is no longer
absorbed by the air and it goes to your
target mhm I said no I hadn't that's
important it's it's why when you're in
in a front of a fireplace and someone
walks in front of you you feel cold
immediately yes that's not the air
temperature changing no it's radiation I
say sit across the room from your
refrigerator have somebody open the door
do this do this you'll feel the
difference yes cuz the photons radiating
off your hand yes and so I had neglected
the the radiative factor from the hot
atmosphere so how long does it really
take two and a half seconds two and a
half yeah it's three times faster it's
pretty fast so yeah if you got to get
out G so if you're there with your pizza
and you have some means to open a window
without exploding dying getting cooked
I'll keep that in mind but these are
important thought experiments because um
they're physics yes all science is
either physics yes or stamp collecting
so we got to land This Plane okay so a
couple of things are we going to tail
first propulsively land or we going to
go in you know we're going to glider I'm
a glider Lander guy so I don't want to
Splash in the ocean that's very
primitive but you it's hard to miss
that's why they did that's why they the
Pacific is a big time well and so is off
the coast of Florida now you have if you
remember this but when I was young the
spacecraft was in 10 miles of the Navy
ship that was a big deal now they wait
don't get too close no they land you
landed on the bull you know back to you
so another big part of the planetary
society's identity was the successful
funding appeal funding and launch and
deployment of the solar sale which was
the dream of so many people one of your
Founders uh uh Lou Freeman wrote a book
yes and so this was like a a very big
expression andrean was a big proponent
of this yes uh andrean car Carl Sig's
Widow and board member so would you
count that as among the bigger
achievements oh yeah especially under my
watch no really uh uh we had a solar
sale launch funded largely by andrean
and people associated with the Discovery
Channel and uh it crashed in the ocean
and it was okay game over done boom so
so then it took many years nine more
years to get it together to build
another spacecraft and in that interim
this thing called the cube set emerged
cubical satellite which are 10 cm by 10
cm by 10 cm and then variations of that
have been you can go online and buy
parts for satellite and they're cheap to
launch expensive it's like a it's like
your science project yeah it is and a
lot of students a lot of universities
and high schools participate in cubat
programs and uh the other thing is
electronics have gotten increasingly
smaller more miniaturized one could
argue that the miniaturization of
electronics was stimulated by space yes
well it's uh how to say symbiotic yeah
we were able to get funding 50,000
people around the world just think it's
great we launched spacecraft in 2014 to
prove that it would work and by the way
I've done very little as CEO the place
is run by Jennifer vaugh our chief
operating officer we have a Chief
Financial Officer Jim sa we have chief
of communications Daniel gun we got a
development officer Rich we got all
these people but once in a while
somebody's got to decide to do something
so it was my decision should we take
this launch in 2014 with a spacecraft
that wasn't as capable as we hoped one
day would be but it had cameras and so
we launched in 2014 we got these
pictures down and that enabled us to get
funding to launch light sale too there
it is you could see the light sale
unfurling is it I remembering and so by
the way real so right there is a boom
that uh golden looking thing is burum
copper and uh what's cool about it or
remarkable this is uh the same material
in much shorter length just notice how
stiff it is if you try to bend it yeah
can't and then notice how compact it is
if you try to roll it or bend it in the
other axis and so this is what enables
fold it up to get into the well rolled
up yeah and if you look at it it's
there's these tiny dots these are laser
Stitch welded at the at the US Air Force
research lab anyway I mention all this
because there's a lot of cool technology
that
we perfected and flew in 2017 any good
space mission does yes because you're
doing something that's never been done
before
y had to innovate the control laws how
you steer it and uh rolling it up and uh
getting it robust enough to tolerate
cosmic rays without being too heavy to
fly we did all that and so uh very proud
of that and uh people ask us what's next
I'll just say stay
tuned so a quick I want to remind people
unless they may living under a rock uh
many people you taught them science
growing up as Bill KN Science Guy it
really is amazing and now they're full-
grown adults with kids and they some of
them have kids and you're like Papa
science here yeah and you you were the
AA parent to what maybe was in our
generation who's the guy on TV Mr Don
Herbert Don I had lunch with him I L I
look like nobody I had lunch with him
Don Herbert and he was uh Mr what was he
Mr Wizard Mr Wizard are you fing with me
Mr Wizard so I went to his memorial
service oh and you guys I was just
crying just couldn't get over it man the
guy was so
influential um I can tell you the
technical aspects of everything but his
show was done intuitively our the
Science Guy show we had all this
research that 10 years old is as old as
you can be to get the so-called lifelong
passion for science to get it when you
so it was dialed in I was nine I was
nine I love you man yeah it was dialed
in for people 10 years old that's why
that's part of why the show was so
successful and uh then you would I don't
want to say transition out of that but
you added to your let's go with
Professional Profile yes uh to to be a
space Advocate like for adults and for
the nation and for the president for the
world this sort of thing yeah so and did
you ride in Air Force One One Time
excuse me Barack Obama got to meet me
yeah and uh spent some time you you
chilling with Barack there you go but he
was uh he is a very thoughtful and
frankly Charming guy and smart yeah and
so I um well he's brilliant and so we
talked about space exploration good on
Marine one I know hung out with you've
hung out with him but I uh it was his
airplanes though but it was quite cool
and he was very receptive to um
addressing climate change he was very
interested in that M and uh his policies
led
to this the beginning of the start of a
beginning of uh climate policies
involved in the inflation reduction act
aka the clean power which had some
elements to it yeah yeah yeah so Bill
Neil planetary Society great to see you
so where do we find it you got a website
for it planetary.org it's your homepage
planet planetary.org planetary.org and
we have a podast button there that that
you can join yes and so on every page if
you got want to run a nonprofit you put
a donate button on every page right
that's what it is and so we thank
everybody out there who is a member
encourage those of you who for some
reason are not members to join us and we
have now the planetary Academy aimed at
families and the monthly planetary
report planetary four times a year now
because people get their space
information on the electric internet so
we have longer form articles in the
printed magazine rather than rather than
journalistic articles which we have some
of each we have I claim the we have the
world's Premier long form planetary
science journalism nice but I myself
have referenced it to catch up on
certain yes well thank you we have the
best going because you know Mission
information is very fragmented is
everywhere there's a little bit there
and a little bit there and it comes into
a coherent uh sensible pedagogical
delivery to give us an idea of what's
involved you want to go you send a
mission to Jupiter big enor enormous
rocket Falcon heavy three Falcon 9
strapped to strapped together 27 engines
blasting at once going as fast as you
can getting a slingshot from Earth takes
almost six years and so you're in this
game for the Long Haul do and and with
Europa Clipper we're six years out
that's what I'm saying yeah yeah years
that's what you describe yeah yeah and
just uh it will change the world thank
you all planet .org Turn It Up loud Bill
Neil great Star Talk yeah oh you got
American Dream American dream I'm on
Star talko
[Applause]
[Music]